---
versionFrom: 7.0.0
versionTo: 10.0.0
---

# Repositories in an Umbraco cloud Project

Each Umbraco cloud Project can have multiple environments: Development, Staging, and Live depending on your cloud project plan. Each environment has its own git repository that is hosted on Azure. Ideally, your Umbraco Cloud setup should look like this:

- [A source control repository with your own code](#a-source-control-repository-with-your-own-code)
- [A Umbraco Cloud source control repository with the locally cloned Umbraco project](#a-git-umbraco-cloud-source-control-repository-with-the-locally-cloned-umbraco-project)

:::note
Umbraco cloud repositories are only deployment repositories and should not be used as source code repositories.
:::

## A source control repository with your own code

Source control is a way to control changes to files and directories, so that you can keep a record of changes and revert to specific versions of a file in the event you’d like to back up to an earlier time. A source control repository is used as the single source of truth that has the latest version of your project source code with all the git branches.

There are different source code management tools that you can use such as GitHub, Git, GitLab, Apache Subversion (SVN), CVS, Mercurial, etc.

You need to put your custom code in a different source control repository you prefer. You can verify that it works on your local machine and copy those changes to the Umbraco Cloud source control repository with the locally cloned Umbraco project. The locally cloned Umbraco project has a `.gitignore` file. This file ignores all the Visual Studio temporary files, build results, files generated by popular Visual Studio add-ons, Umbraco folder, media files, log files, Packages and Plugins, etc. while pushing the changes to your cloud environments.

For Umbraco version 8 and below, you can use the source control repository to store the custom models, controllers, class library i.e `<projectname>.Core`, etc. For Umbraco version 9 and above, you can store a copy of the entire source code, do version branching etc.

## A Git Umbraco Cloud source control repository with the locally cloned Umbraco project

When you create a Cloud project you get 2 websites: a Development environment and a Live environment. To work with a local copy of your site, you clone down the Development environment using the **Clone project** option from the Cloud Portal and start building your website locally. This repository is different from your source control repository.

Once you're happy with the results or wish to see how your website has progressed, you push the changes back to the Development environment. If everything is working as expected you then deploy your changes to the Live environment.

### Code Deployment Summary

With this setup, you commit your changes twice. Once to commit your code in your source control and the other commit to the Umbraco Cloud GIT repository to deploy your website. Your source code is not hosted on Umbraco Cloud but only your cloned project will be in the Umbraco Cloud GIT Repository. Your code is built and compiled into the cloned project and then pushed to Umbraco Cloud. Thus updating the site with your latest code changes.

## Disadvantages of using an Umbraco Cloud Project repository as a source code repository

- We only guarantee to maintain and keep the master branch, if any other branches are created they might be removed causing data loss.

- In Umbraco version 9 and above: Unlike your code repository, you will still need to commit your frontend artifacts, as the build pipeline only builds dlls from your C# code, 

- In Umbraco version 8 and below: You will always need to commit your dll files.
