15/umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/runtimesettings.md, before:

---
description: "Information on the runtime settings section"
---

# Runtime settings

In the Runtime settings you can configure:

- Size limits for requests and query strings. Neither of these settings needs to be configured. If nothing is configured, requests and query strings can be any size.
- The runtime mode of Umbraco.
- The lifetime of temporary file uploads. This is primarily used when uploading images and other media in the backoffice.

An example of a configuration could look something like:

```json
"Umbraco": {
  "CMS": {
    "Runtime": {
      "MaxQueryStringLength": 90,
      "MaxRequestLength": 2048,
      "Mode": "BackofficeDevelopment",
      "TemporaryFileLifeTime": "1.00:00:00"
    }
  }
}
```

- `MaxRequestLength` is specified in kilobytes. Setting this limits the request size, including the size of uploaded files.
- `MaxQueryStringLength` is specified in number of characters. Setting this limits the maximum query string length.
- `Mode` can have three values: `BackofficeDevelopment` (default), `Development`, and `Production`. For more information, see the [Runtime modes](../../fundamentals/setup/server-setup/runtime-modes.md) article.
- `TemporaryFileLifeTime` is specified as a timespan. The default value is one day - `1.00:00:00`.

Commit message:

docs: copies an update for the setting `MaxRequestLength` to v14 and v15 articles about runtime settings

15/umbraco-cms/reference/configuration/runtimesettings.md, after:

---
description: "Information on the runtime settings section"
---

# Runtime settings

In the Runtime settings you can configure:

- Size limits for requests and query strings. Neither of these settings needs to be configured. If nothing is configured, requests and query strings can be any size.
- The runtime mode of Umbraco.
- The lifetime of temporary file uploads. This is primarily used when uploading images and other media in the backoffice.

An example of a configuration could look something like:

```json
"Umbraco": {
  "CMS": {
    "Runtime": {
      "MaxQueryStringLength": 90,
      "MaxRequestLength": 2048,
      "Mode": "BackofficeDevelopment",
      "TemporaryFileLifeTime": "1.00:00:00"
    }
  }
}
```

- `MaxRequestLength` is specified in kilobytes. Setting this limits the request size, including the size of uploaded files. This only has an effect when hosting with Kestrel. See the [Maximum Upload Size Settings
](./maximumuploadsizesettings.md) article for more information).
- `MaxQueryStringLength` is specified in number of characters. Setting this limits the maximum query string length.
- `Mode` can have three values: `BackofficeDevelopment` (default), `Development`, and `Production`. For more information, see the [Runtime modes](../../fundamentals/setup/server-setup/runtime-modes.md) article.
- `TemporaryFileLifeTime` is specified as a timespan. The default value is one day - `1.00:00:00`.
