---
description: Key Umbraco node properties used by Umbraco Commerce.
---

# Umbraco Properties

Umbraco Commerce uses Umbraco nodes as its source of information. In order for Umbraco Commerce to gather the information it needs, it requires that a number of properties are defined at different locations. These properties must have specific property aliases.

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th width="189.89867841409693">Alias</th><th width="200">Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>store</code></td><td>Umbraco.Commerce.StorePicker</td><td>Often placed on the site root node, but can be placed on any node higher<br>than the product nodes themselves, this property links the website to a<br>specific Umbraco Commerce store configuration.</td></tr><tr><td><code>productName</code></td><td>Textstring</td><td>Optional product node property that allows you to define an explicit<br>product name other than the product nodes <code>.Name</code> property,<br>which will be used as fallback.</td></tr><tr><td><code>sku</code></td><td>Textstring</td><td>Product node property defining the unique <code>SKU</code> of the<br>product.</td></tr><tr><td><code>price</code></td><td>Umbraco.Commerce.Price</td><td>Product node property defining the prices for the product.</td></tr><tr><td><code>stock</code></td><td>Umbraco.Commerce.Stock</td><td>Product node property defining the stock level of the product.</td></tr><tr><td><code>image</code></td><td>Umbraco.MediaPicker3</td><td>Optional product node property defining an image for the given product.</td></tr><tr><td><code>measurements</code></td><td>Umbraco.Commerce.Measurements</td><td>Optional (depending on the shipping configuration) node property defining physical dimensions and weight of the product.</td></tr><tr><td><code>taxClass</code></td><td>Umbraco.Commerce.StoreEntityPicker</td><td>Optional product node property that allows you to define an explicit<code>Tax Class</code> for the product, should it differ from the stores<br>default.</td></tr><tr><td><code>isGiftCard</code></td><td>True/False</td><td>Optional product node property that defined whether the product node<br>should be considered a Gift Card product, in which case it triggers the<br>automatic generation of a Gift Card in the backoffice and emails it<br>directly to the customer on checkout.</td></tr><tr><td><code>productSource</code></td><td>ContentPicker</td><td>Optional product node property allowing you to link a product to another<br>product outside of it's hierarchy to be used as it's source of product<br>information.</td></tr></tbody></table>
