16/umbraco-cms/customizing/back-office-signs.md, before:

---
description: Describes how to use sign information provided in management API responses to present additional details to consumers.
---

# Backoffice Signs

When trees, collections and items are presented in the backoffice, additional information can be displayed in the form of Signs.

A Backoffice sign is a client-side extension point that determines how each sign is displayed in the backoffice.

A Sign can utilize conditions in the same way as other Extensions or it can be bound to a Flag coming from the Management API.

For example, a Document scheduled for future publishing will have a Flag defined as part of trees, collections and item response:

```json
  "flags": [
    {
      "alias": "Umb.ScheduledForPublish"
    }
  ],
```

A Flag can be the determinant for a Sign by declaring the `forEntityFlags` as part of its Manifest.

Example:
```json
...
forEntityFlags: "Umb.ScheduledForPublish",
...
```

Using this binding lets the server determine which signs are present in the response via the registered collection of [flag providers](../extending/flag-providers.md).

## Displaying a Sign

{% hint style="info" %}
The client extension for backoffice signs will be available in Umbraco 16.4 / 17.0.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

Added documentation about displaying an icon and example

16/umbraco-cms/customizing/back-office-signs.md, after:

---
description: Describes how to use sign information provided in management API responses to present additional details to consumers.
---

# Backoffice Signs

When trees, collections and items are presented in the backoffice, additional information can be displayed in the form of Signs.

A Backoffice sign is a client-side extension point that determines how each sign is displayed in the backoffice.

A Sign can utilize conditions in the same way as other Extensions or it can be bound to a Flag coming from the Management API.

For example, a Document scheduled for future publishing will have a Flag defined as part of trees, collections and item response:

```json
  "flags": [
    {
      "alias": "Umb.ScheduledForPublish"
    }
  ],
```

A Flag can be the determinant for a Sign by declaring the `forEntityFlags` as part of its Manifest.

Example:

```json
...
forEntityFlags: "Umb.ScheduledForPublish",
...
```

Using this binding lets the server determine which signs are present in the response via the registered collection of [flag providers](../extending/flag-providers.md).

## Displaying a Sign

Register an entitySign extension. Bind it to Flags using forEntityFlags. For the icon variant, set kind: 'icon' and provide meta.iconName and meta.label so the UI has something to render.

Example:

```typescript
import type { UmbExtensionManifest } from "@umbraco-cms/backoffice/extension-registry";
import { UMB_DOCUMENT_ENTITY_TYPE } from "@umbraco-cms/backoffice/document";

export const manifests: UmbExtensionManifest = {
    type: "entitySign",
    kind: "icon",
    alias: "Umb.EntitySign.Document.IsProtected",
    name: "Is Protected Document Entity Sign",
    forEntityTypes: [UMB_DOCUMENT_ENTITY_TYPE], // Where it can appear
    forEntityFlags: ["Umb.IsProtected"], // <---Binding part-When it should appear
    meta: {
        iconName: "icon-lock", // Built-in or custom icon name
        label: "Protected", // Visible/accessible label
    },
};
```

When an entity includes the Umb.IsProtected flag, this Sign appears next to it in the UI.

{% hint style="info" %}
The client extension for backoffice signs will be available in Umbraco 16.4 / 17.0.
{% endhint %}
