15/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/rich-text-editor/style-menu.md, before:

# Style Menu

A Style Menu is a configurable extension that adds a cascading menu to the toolbar for applying text styles and formatting.

![Rich Text Editor cascading style menu](images/rte-tiptap-stylemenu.png)

{% hint style="info" %}
Any custom stylesheets associated with the Rich Text Editor will not auto generate a style menu in the toolbar.
{% endhint %}

### Creating a Style Menu

In this article, you can find an example of how to set up a Style Menu using the package manifest file.

{% code title="umbraco-package.json" %}
```json
{
    "name": "Name of your package",
    "alias": "My.Package",
    "extensions": [
        {
            "type": "tiptapToolbarExtension",
            "kind": "styleMenu",
            "alias": "MyCustom.Tiptap.StyleMenu",
            "name": "My Custom Tiptap Style Menu",
            "meta": {
                "alias": "myCustomStyleMenu",
                "icon": "icon-palette",
                "label": "My custom styles"
            },
            "items": [
                {
                    "label": "Headings",
                    "items": [
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 2",
                            "data": { "tag": "h2" },
                            "appearance": { "icon": "icon-heading-2" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 3",
                            "data": { "tag": "h3" },
                            "appearance": { "style": "font-size: large;" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 4",
                            "data": { "tag": "h4" }
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "label": "Attributes",
                    "items": [
                        {
                            "label": "Classes",
                            "data": { "class": "foo" }
                        },
                        { 
                            "label": "IDs",
                            "data": { "id": "bar" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Mixed",
                            "data": { "tag": "span", "class": "foo", "id": "bar" }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
{% endcode %}


The `items` property defines the structure of the style menu. Each menu item has the following options:

- `label`: _(required)_ The label of the menu item. This supports localization keys.
- `appearance`: This defines the appearance of the menu item. The value has 2 optional properties:
  - `icon`: To prefix an icon to the menu item.
  - `style`: To apply CSS rules to the menu item.
- `data`: To configure the function of the style menu item. The value has 3 optional properties:
  - `tag`: A [supported HTML tag](#supported-html-tags) name. This will be applied to the selected text.
  - `class`: Applies a class attribute with the defined class name to the containing tag of the selected text.
  - `id`: Applies an ID attribute with the defined ID value to the containing tag of the selected text.
- `separatorAfter`: When `true`, it will add a line separator after the menu item.
- `items`: To enable a cascading menu, an array of nested menu items may be added.


Once configured, all custom style menus will appear in the Rich Text Editor toolbar options, as described in the [Rich Text Editor Configuration](configuration.md) article.


#### Supported HTML tags

Since the Tiptap has a strict rich-text schema, only supported HTML tags can be used in the style menu, _(arbitrary markup will be excluded)._ The following HTML tag names are supported: 

- `h1`
- `h2`
- `h3`
- `h4`
- `h5`
- `h6`
-  `p`
- `blockquote`
- `code`
- `codeBlock`
- `div`
- `em` (italic)
- `ol`
- `strong` (bold)
- `s` (strike-through)
- `span`
- `u` (underline)
- `ul`

Commit message:

Added steps to add style select to RTE toolbar

15/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/rich-text-editor/style-menu.md, after:

# Style Select Menu

A Style Select Menu is a configurable extension that adds a cascading menu to the toolbar for applying text styles and formatting.

![Rich Text Editor cascading style menu](images/rte-tiptap-stylemenu.png)

{% hint style="info" %}
Any custom stylesheets associated with the Rich Text Editor will not auto generate a style select menu in the toolbar.
{% endhint %}

## Adding Style Select to the Rich Text Editor

To add Style Select to the Rich Text Editor:

1. Go to **Settings**.
2. Navigate to **Data Types**.
3. Select the relevant Data Type.
4. Drag **Style Select** from **Available Actions** into the **Toolbar** section.
5. Click **Save**.

Alternatively, while configuring an editor on a Document Type, you can drag **Style Select** from **Available Actions** into the **Toolbar** section.

![Adding Style Select to the Rich Text Editor](images/adding-style-select-to-toolbar.png)

## Creating a Style Select Menu

In this article, you can find an example of how to set up a Style Select Menu using the package manifest file.

{% code title="umbraco-package.json" %}
```json
{
    "name": "Name of your package",
    "alias": "My.Package",
    "extensions": [
        {
            "type": "tiptapToolbarExtension",
            "kind": "styleMenu",
            "alias": "MyCustom.Tiptap.StyleMenu",
            "name": "My Custom Tiptap Style Menu",
            "meta": {
                "alias": "myCustomStyleMenu",
                "icon": "icon-palette",
                "label": "My custom styles"
            },
            "items": [
                {
                    "label": "Headings",
                    "items": [
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 2",
                            "data": { "tag": "h2" },
                            "appearance": { "icon": "icon-heading-2" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 3",
                            "data": { "tag": "h3" },
                            "appearance": { "style": "font-size: large;" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Heading 4",
                            "data": { "tag": "h4" }
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "label": "Attributes",
                    "items": [
                        {
                            "label": "Classes",
                            "data": { "class": "foo" }
                        },
                        { 
                            "label": "IDs",
                            "data": { "id": "bar" }
                        },
                        {
                            "label": "Mixed",
                            "data": { "tag": "span", "class": "foo", "id": "bar" }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
{% endcode %}

The `items` property defines the structure of the style select menu. Each menu item has the following options:

- `label`: _(required)_ The label of the menu item. This supports localization keys.
- `appearance`: This defines the appearance of the menu item. The value has 2 optional properties:
  - `icon`: To prefix an icon to the menu item.
  - `style`: To apply CSS rules to the menu item.
- `data`: To configure the function of the style select menu item. The value has 3 optional properties:
  - `tag`: A [supported HTML tag](#supported-html-tags) name. This will be applied to the selected text.
  - `class`: Applies a class attribute with the defined class name to the containing tag of the selected text.
  - `id`: Applies an ID attribute with the defined ID value to the containing tag of the selected text.
- `separatorAfter`: When `true`, it will add a line separator after the menu item.
- `items`: To enable a cascading menu, an array of nested menu items may be added.

Once configured, all custom style select menus will appear in the Rich Text Editor toolbar options, as described in the [Rich Text Editor Configuration](configuration.md) article.

### Supported HTML tags

Since the Tiptap has a strict rich-text schema, only supported HTML tags can be used in the style select menu, _(arbitrary markup will be excluded)._ The following HTML tag names are supported:

- `h1`
- `h2`
- `h3`
- `h4`
- `h5`
- `h6`
- `p`
- `blockquote`
- `code`
- `codeBlock`
- `div`
- `em` (italic)
- `ol`
- `strong` (bold)
- `s` (strike-through)
- `span`
- `u` (underline)
- `ul`
