---
description: >-
  Details an integration available for Hubspot, built and maintained by Umbraco HQ.
---

# Hubspot Integration

This integration provides a form picker and rendering component for forms managed within a [Hubspot](https://www.hubspot.com/) account.

Install from NuGet via:
https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Cms.Integrations.Crm.Hubspot

Source code is at:
https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.Cms.Integrations/tree/main/src/Umbraco.Cms.Integrations.Crm.Hubspot

Available on the Umbraco Marketplace at:
https://marketplace.umbraco.com/package/umbraco.cms.integrations.crm.hubspot

## Prerequisites

Required minimum versions of Umbraco CMS:
- 8.5.4 for version 8
- 9.0.1 for version 9
- 10.0.0 for version 10
- 11.0.0 for version 11

## How To Use

### Authentication

The package uses the OAuth protocol for authentication or private access tokens (if you are using a private app installed on your HubSpot account).

### Additional Configuration

To support multi-region HubSpot forms, the following app settings are required:

For Umbraco 8, in `web.config`:

```xml
  <appSettings>
    <add key="Umbraco.Cms.Integrations.Crm.Hubspot.ApiKey" value="[your_private_app_access_token]" />
    <add key="Umbraco.Cms.Integrations.Crm.Hubspot.Region" value="[region]" />
  </appSettings>
```
For Umbraco 9+, in `appsettings.json`:

```json
  "Umbraco": {
    "Integrations": {
      "Crm": {
        "Dynamics": {
          "Settings": {
            "ApiKey": "[your_private_app_access_token]",
            "Region": "[region]"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

For example, in Europe, a setting of `eu1` should be used.

### Backoffice usage

To use the form picker, a new data type should be created based on the HubSpot Form Picker property editor.

The settings will be checked and a message presented indicating whether authentication is in place.

If OAuth is being used for authentication is available, then the _Connect_ button will be enabled, prompting the user when clicked,
with the HubSpot authorization window.

The retrieved access token will be saved into the database and used for future requests.

_Revoke_ action will remove the access token from the database and the authorization process will need to be repeated.

If a private access token is used a message will be displayed notifying that access token is being used.

### Front-end rendering

A strongly typed model will be generated by the property value converter, and an HTML helper is available, to easily render the form on the front-end.

Ensure your template has a reference to the following using statement:

```csharp
@using Umbraco.Cms.Integrations.Crm.Hubspot.Helpers;
```

And render the form using (assuming a property based on the created data type, with alias `hubSpotForm` has been created):

```csharp
@Html.RenderHubspotForm(Model.HubspotForm)
```