commerce-add-ons/payment-providers/invoicing/configuring-umbraco.md, before:

---
title: Configuring Umbraco
description: >-
  Learn how to configure the Umbraco backoffice for enabling the use of
  Invoicing as a payment method.
---

# Configure Umbraco

This article will give you details about how to configure Umbraco to start using the Invoicing payment method with your Umbraco Commerce implementation.

## Step 1: Create a Payment Method

The following steps are all handled through the Umbraco backoffice.

1. Navigate to **Settings > Commerce > Stores > {Store Name} > Payment Methods** section.
2. Select the **Create Payment Method** button to create a new payment method.
3. Choose **Invoicing** from the list of available payment providers.

![The "Create Payment Method" dialog in the Commerce section of the Umbraco CMS backoffice.](../media/invoicing/umbraco\_create\_payment\_method.png)

## Step 2: Configure Payment Provider Settings

The following steps are handled within the payment method editor in the Umbraco backoffice.

1. Configure the standard payment method settings as required.
2. Configure the Invoice payment provider settings as follows:

| Name         | Description                                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Continue URL | The URL of the page to navigate to after payment - e.g. `/confirmation/` |

Commit message:

Fixed grammar, updated steps and images where possible

commerce-add-ons/payment-providers/invoicing/configuring-umbraco.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Learn how to configure the Umbraco backoffice to enable the Invoicing payment method.
---

# Configure Umbraco

This article will give you details about how to configure Umbraco to start using the Invoicing payment method with your Umbraco Commerce implementation.

## Step 1: Create a Payment Method

To create Invoicing as a payment method, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to **Settings > Stores > {Store Name} > Payment Methods**.
2. Click **Create Payment Method**.
3. Select **Invoicing** from the list of available payment providers.

  ![Invoicing Payment method in Umbraco Backoffice](../media/invoicing/umbraco-create-payment-method-new.png)

4. **Enter a Name** for the payment method. For example: *Invoicing*.
5. Enter a value for **SKU**.
6. Click **Save**.

## Step 2: Configure Payment Provider Settings

To configure the Invoicing Provider settings, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to **Settings > Stores > {Store Name} > Payment Methods**.
2. Select *Invoicing*.
3. Choose the appropriate **Tax Class** from the dropdown menu.
4. Enter the **Default Pricing**.
5. Enter the URL of the page in the **Continue URL** field where users should be redirected after completing their payment. For example: `https://www.yourwebsite.com/confirmation`.
6. Enable or disable the ability to cancel pending payments directly from the Backoffice.
7. Enable or disable whether users can manually capture payments for authorized transactions through the Backoffice.
8. Choose the countries where the payment method should be available.
9. Click **Save**.
