commerce-add-ons/payment-providers/invoicing/README.md, before:

---
description: Getting Started with the Invoicing payment provider for Umbraco Commerce.
---

# Overview

The Invoicing payment provider is a "pass-through" payment provider that doesn't capture any payment information itself. Instead, it allows orders to go through in an `Authorized` state where it is assumed that payments will be captured manually in an external system. Once captured, orders can then be updated to the `Captured` payment status via the backoffice.

## Install Invoice Payment Provider

By default, Umbraco Commerce includes the Invoice payment method. If the package has been removed from your implementation, see the [Installing Umbraco Commerce](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-commerce/installation/install) article to reinstall it again.

## In this Section

In this section, we will guide you through the key steps to get started with the Invoicing payment provider for Umbraco Commerce.

Before beginning, ensure you have an Umbraco website configured and Umbraco Commerce installed. If not, see the [Umbraco Commerce Documentation](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-commerce/) to get started.

Commit message:

Fixed grammar, updated steps and images where possible

commerce-add-ons/payment-providers/invoicing/README.md, after:

---
description: >-
    Getting Started with the Invoicing payment provider for Umbraco Commerce.
---

# Overview

The Invoicing payment provider is a "pass-through" payment provider that doesn't capture payment information directly. It allows orders to be processed in an Authorized state, assuming payments will be handled manually in an external system. Once the payment is captured, the order status can be updated to Captured via the backoffice.

## Install Invoice Payment Provider

By default, Umbraco Commerce includes the Invoice payment method. If the package has been removed from your implementation, see the [Installing Umbraco Commerce](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-commerce/getting-started/install) article to reinstall it again.

## In this Section

This section will guide you through the key steps to set up the Invoicing payment provider in Umbraco Commerce.

Before you begin, ensure that you have an Umbraco website set up and Umbraco Commerce installed. If not, see the [Umbraco Commerce Documentation](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-commerce/) to get started.
