16/umbraco-ui-builder/collections/localization.md, before:

---
description: Using the available context to handle localization for an UI Builder collection
---

# Localization

The localization context available in UI Builder enables developers to use multilingual collection names and descriptions with their fluent configuration, as well as translations for actions, context apps, dashboards, sections or trees. 

To enable localization the input string must be prefixed by the `#` character.

Upon character identification in the fluent configuration, the localization context will attempt to lookup a matching localized string using two services available. If no matching record is found, it will default to the provided string value.

## Localization Services

To provide localization options, the context is using two abstractions.

One is using the Umbraco translations dictionary to retrieve a value based on a provided key.

The other uses the CMS `ILocalizedTextService` to retrieve a value based on area and alias (these will be supplied in the collection's fluent configuration separated by `_`) from the localization resources.

## Example

For a `Students` collection we would use the following fluent configuration:

```csharp
treeConfig.AddCollection<Student>(x => x.Id, "#CollectionStudents", "#CollectionStudents", "A list of students", "icon-umb-members", "icon-umb-members", collectionConfig =>
{
    ...
});
```

![collection_translation](../images/collection_translation.png)

Or

```csharp
treeConfig.AddCollection<Student>(x => x.Id, "#collection_students", "#collection_students", "A list of students", "icon-umb-members", "icon-umb-members", collectionConfig =>
{
    ...
});
```

```
import type { UmbLocalizationDictionary } from "@umbraco-cms/backoffice/localization-api";

export default {
    collection: {
        students: "Studerende"
    }
    ...
}
```

![collection_name](../images/collection_name.png)

For a custom section we can use the following configuration:

```csharp
.AddSection("#UmbracoTraining", sectionConfig =>
{
    ...
}
```

![section_name](../images/section_name.png)

Commit message:

Update localization docs for UI Builder 16

16/umbraco-ui-builder/collections/localization.md, after:

---
description: Using the available context to handle localization for an UI Builder collection
---

# Localization

The localization context enables developers to use multilingual collection names and descriptions in fluent configurations. It also supports translations for actions, context apps, dashboards, sections, and trees. 

To enable localization, prefix the input string with the `#` character.

Upon character identification in the fluent configuration, the localization context will attempt to lookup a matching localized string using two services available. If no matching record is found, it will default to the provided string value.

## Localization Services

The localization context uses two abstractions to provide localization options.

The first uses the Umbraco translations dictionary to retrieve a value based on a provided key.

The second uses the CMS `ILocalizedTextService` to retrieve a value based on area and alias. These values are supplied in the collection's fluent configuration, separated by an underscore `_` from the localization resources.

## Example

### Localizing a Collection

For a `Students` collection, use the following fluent configuration:

```csharp
treeConfig.AddCollection<Student>(x => x.Id, "#CollectionStudents", "#CollectionStudents", "A list of students", "icon-umb-members", "icon-umb-members", collectionConfig =>
{
    ...
});
```

![collection_translation](../images/collection_translation.png)

Alternatively, you can use the lowercase version:

```csharp
treeConfig.AddCollection<Student>(x => x.Id, "#collection_students", "#collection_students", "A list of students", "icon-umb-members", "icon-umb-members", collectionConfig =>
{
    ...
});
```

Define the translation in your localization dictionary file:
```
import type { UmbLocalizationDictionary } from "@umbraco-cms/backoffice/localization-api";

export default {
    collection: {
        students: "Studerende"
    }
    ...
}
```

![collection_name](../images/collection_name.png)

### Localizing a Section
For a custom section, use the following configuration:

```csharp
.AddSection("#UmbracoTraining", sectionConfig =>
{
    ...
}
```

![section_name](../images/section_name.png)
