---
versionFrom: 10.1.0
---

# Runtime modes

_This section describes best practices with running Umbraco in production._

## What are runtime modes?

Runtime modes are settings you can enable via your Appsettings.json, which enforce best practices for different styles of development or production.

There are 3 available runtime modes in Umbraco:

- BackofficeDevelopment
- Development
- Production

## BackofficeDevelopment mode

BackofficeDevelopment mode is the default behavior for Umbraco and it does not enforce any settings at all.

# Development mode

Development mode is made for code development, this mode makes you change your ModelsBuilder mode to "SourceCodeAuto" or "SourceCodeManual".
In this mode your Razor views will still automatically be recompiled, but if you change your document types you need to manually recompile your application.

To enable development mode, first change your `appsettings.Development.json` to include the following settings:

```json
{
    "Umbraco": {
        "CMS": {
            "Runtime": {
                "Mode" : "Development"
            },
            "ModelsBuilder":{
                "ModelsMode": "SourceCodeAuto"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Now ensure your models are generated by running Umbraco and going to Settings > Models Builder > Generate models.
You're now able to remove the following from your csproj file:

```c#
    <RazorCompileOnBuild>false</RazorCompileOnBuild>
    <RazorCompileOnPublish>false</RazorCompileOnPublish>
    <CopyRazorGenerateFilesToPublishDirectory>true</CopyRazorGenerateFilesToPublishDirectory>
```

If you run the application, it should now be in development mode.

# Production mode

Production mode is made for running your site in production, this mode enforces you to have set "UseHttps" to true, and "UmbracoApplicationUrl" to the canonical url of your Umbraco installation.

To enable production mode, add a `appsettings.Production.json` file to your project with the following settings: 

```json
{
  "Umbraco": {
    "CMS": {
      "Runtime": {
        "Mode": "Production"
      },
      "Global": {
        "UseHttps": true
      },
      "ModelsBuilder": {
        "ModelsMode": "Nothing"
      },
      "WebRouting": {
        "UmbracoApplicationUrl": "https://localhost:5001/"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Do note to use "ModelsMode": "Nothing" you have to have already generated your models before setting this.