16/umbraco-cms/customizing/development-flow/umbraco-extension-template.md, before:

---
description: Use the `umbraco-extension` dotnet template to create a new Umbraco extension
---

# Umbraco Extension Template

Umbraco provides a dotnet template to help you get started with building extensions for the Umbraco backoffice. This template sets up a new project with all the necessary files and configurations to build an extension. The template is called `umbraco-extension` and can be used to create a new Umbraco extension project with a single command.

## Prerequisites
- [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) version 9.0 or later
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 22 or later

## Install the Umbraco Extension Template
To install the Umbraco extension template, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
dotnet new install Umbraco.Templates
```

This command installs the `umbraco` and `umbraco-extension` templates, which you can use to create new Umbraco and Umbraco extension projects. You may already have this installed, if you have created a new Umbraco project using the `dotnet new umbraco` command.

## Create a New Umbraco Extension
To create a new Umbraco extension project, run the following command in your terminal. It should be executed in a folder where you want to create the new project, for example in the root of your solution:

```bash
dotnet new umbraco-extension -n MyExtension -ex
```

This command creates a new folder called `MyExtension` with the following files and folders:
- `MyExtension.csproj`: The project file for the extension.
- `Client`: A folder containing the source code for the extension.
- `tsconfig.json`: The TypeScript configuration file.
- `vite.config.ts`: The Vite configuration file.
- `package.json`: The Node.js package configuration file.
- `README.md`: A readme file with instructions on how to build and run the extension.

### Include the Extension in your Umbraco Project

To include the extension in your Umbraco project, you need to add a reference to the extension project in your Umbraco project. You can do this by right-clicking on the **Dependencies** node in your Umbraco project and selecting **Add Reference**. Then select the `MyExtension` project and click **OK**.

## Build and Run the Extension

To build and run the extension, you need to install the dependencies and start the Vite development server. You can do this by running the following commands in the `Client` folder of your extension project:

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The project will also automatically build when you run the Umbraco project. You can also run the Vite development server in watch mode by running the following command:

```bash
npm run watch
```
{% endhint %}

This command compiles the TypeScript files and copies them over to the output folder in `wwwroot`. You can then run your Umbraco project and see the extension in action.

## Publish the Project

The output files should automatically be copied to the `wwwroot` folder of your Umbraco project. They should also be included in the publish process when you publish your Umbraco project. You can publish your Umbraco project using the following command:

```bash
dotnet publish -c Release
```

## Publish as a Package

To publish your extension as a package, you need to create a NuGet package. You can do this by running the following command in the root folder of your extension project:

```bash
dotnet pack -c Release
```

This command creates a NuGet package in the `bin/Release` folder of your extension project. You can then publish this package to a NuGet feed or share it with others.

The `umbraco-extension` template is opinionated until a certain point. It is a starting point for building extensions for the Umbraco backoffice. The template includes a basic structure and configuration for building extensions, but you can customize it to fit your needs. You can add additional files, folders, and configurations as needed.

To publish your extension as an Umbraco Package, you need some additional files. You can read more about that in the [Umbraco Package documentation](../../customizing/umbraco-package.md).

### The Opinionated Starter Kit

One other option is to use the [Opinionated Umbraco Package Starter Template](https://github.com/LottePitcher/opinionated-package-starter). This is a template that includes all the files and configurations needed to build an Umbraco package. It builds on top of the `umbraco-extension` template and includes additional files and configurations for building Umbraco packages. This template is a great starting point for building Umbraco packages and includes everything you need to get started.

You can install this template by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
dotnet new install Umbraco.Community.Templates.PackageStarter
```

Then you can create a new package project by running the following command:

```bash
dotnet new umbracopackagestarter -n YourPackageName -an "Your Name" -gu "YourGitHubUsername" -gr "YourGitHubRepoName"
```

Commit message:

docs: adds explanation to what `-ex` does

16/umbraco-cms/customizing/development-flow/umbraco-extension-template.md, after:

---
description: Use the `umbraco-extension` dotnet template to create a new Umbraco extension
---

# Umbraco Extension Template

Umbraco provides a dotnet template to help you get started with building extensions for the Umbraco backoffice. This template sets up a new project with all the necessary files and configurations to build an extension. The template is called `umbraco-extension` and can be used to create a new Umbraco extension project with a single command.

## Prerequisites
- [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) version 9.0 or later
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 22 or later

## Install the Umbraco Extension Template
To install the Umbraco extension template, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
dotnet new install Umbraco.Templates
```

This command installs the `umbraco` and `umbraco-extension` templates, which you can use to create new Umbraco and Umbraco extension projects. You may already have this installed, if you have created a new Umbraco project using the `dotnet new umbraco` command.

## Create a New Umbraco Extension
To create a new Umbraco extension project, run the following command in your terminal. It should be executed in a folder where you want to create the new project, for example in the root of your solution:

```bash
dotnet new umbraco-extension -n MyExtension -ex
```

This command creates a new folder called `MyExtension` with the following files and folders:
- `MyExtension.csproj`: The project file for the extension.
- `Constants.cs`: A file containing constants for the extension.
- `Client`: A folder containing the source code for the extension, a package.json file, a tsconfig.json file, and the vite.config.ts configuration file.
- `README.md`: A readme file with instructions on how to build and run the extension.

The `-ex` flag indicates that you want to include examples of how to use the extension. This flag is optional, but it is recommended to include it if you are new to building extensions for Umbraco. It will additionally give you:

- `Composers`: A folder containing an example composer that registers a custom Swagger API.
- `Controllers`: A folder containing an example API controller for a dashboard.
- `Client/src/api`: A folder containing an example API client that calls the API controller.
- `Client/src/dashboards`: A folder containing an example dashboard Web Component that uses the API client.

You should be able to see the dashboard in the main Content section of the Backoffice.

### Include the Extension in your Umbraco Project

To include the extension in your Umbraco project, you need to add a reference to the extension project in your Umbraco project. You can do this by right-clicking on the **Dependencies** node in your Umbraco project and selecting **Add Reference**. Then select the `MyExtension` project and click **OK**.

You can also add the reference manually by running the following command in the root folder of your Umbraco project:

```bash
dotnet add reference ../MyExtension/MyExtension.csproj
```

This command adds a reference to the `MyExtension` project in your Umbraco project. You can then build your Umbraco project and see the extension in action.

## Build and Run the Extension

To build and run the extension, you need to install the dependencies and start the Vite development server. You can do this by running the following commands in the `Client` folder of your extension project:

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The project will also automatically build when you run the Umbraco project. You can also run the Vite development server in watch mode by running the following command:

```bash
npm run watch
```
{% endhint %}

This command compiles the TypeScript files and copies them over to the output folder in `wwwroot`. You can then run your Umbraco project and see the extension in action.

## Publish the Project

The output files should automatically be copied to the `wwwroot` folder of your Umbraco project. They should also be included in the publish process when you publish your Umbraco project. You can publish your Umbraco project using the following command:

```bash
dotnet publish -c Release
```

## Publish as a Package

To publish your extension as a package, you need to create a NuGet package. You can do this by running the following command in the root folder of your extension project:

```bash
dotnet pack -c Release
```

This command creates a NuGet package in the `bin/Release` folder of your extension project. You can then publish this package to a NuGet feed or share it with others.

The `umbraco-extension` template is opinionated until a certain point. It is a starting point for building extensions for the Umbraco backoffice. The template includes a basic structure and configuration for building extensions, but you can customize it to fit your needs. You can add additional files, folders, and configurations as needed.

To publish your extension as an Umbraco Package, you need some additional files. You can read more about that in the [Umbraco Package documentation](../../customizing/umbraco-package.md).

### The Opinionated Starter Kit

One other option is to use the [Opinionated Umbraco Package Starter Template](https://github.com/LottePitcher/opinionated-package-starter). This is a template that includes all the files and configurations needed to build an Umbraco package. It builds on top of the `umbraco-extension` template and includes additional files and configurations for building Umbraco packages. This template is a great starting point for building Umbraco packages and includes everything you need to get started.

You can install this template by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
dotnet new install Umbraco.Community.Templates.PackageStarter
```

Then you can create a new package project by running the following command:

```bash
dotnet new umbracopackagestarter -n YourPackageName -an "Your Name" -gu "YourGitHubUsername" -gr "YourGitHubRepoName"
```
