16/umbraco-cms/tutorials/editors-manual/media-management/working-with-images-and-files.md, before:

# Working with Media Types

The following default Media Types are available:

* Article - Used for uploading and storing documents.
* Audio - used for uploading and storing digital audio files.
* File - used for uploading and storing different types of files in the Media section.
* Folder - a container for organizing media items in the media tree.
* Image - used for uploading and storing images.
* Vector Graphics (SVG) - used for uploading and storing Scalable Vector Graphics files which are text files containing source code to draw the desired image.
* Video - used for uploading and storing video files.

## Uploading a Media Item

In the Media Library, there are multiple ways to upload media items. The two most commonly used ones are:

1. Use the **Create** button to create a new media item and then upload directly from your machine.
2.  The **...** next to the Media tree in the Media section.

    ![mediaUpload.jpg](images/upload-images-v14.png)

{% hint style="info" %}
We recommend using folders to organize your media items if you are going to add a lot of media to your website.
{% endhint %}

## Deleting a Media Item

If you wish to tidy up the Media section of your site, you can delete existing media items. Once you have deleted a media item, it is sent to the Recycle Bin. If you change your mind, you can restore the deleted media item from the Recycle Bin.

To delete a Media Item:

1. Select the media item you want to delete.
2.  Click **...** and select **Trash**.

    ![mediaUpload.jpg](images/delete-media-item-v14.png)
3. Click **Trash**.

## Restoring a Media Item from the Recycle Bin

The **Recycle Bin** is a separate tree structure within the Media section. Clicking on the arrow next to the Recycle Bin will display its contents.

![Recycle Bin](images/mediaRecycle-single-imagev14.png)

To restore a Media Item:

1. Click **•••** next to the Media Item.
2.  Select **Restore**.

    ![Restore Folder](images/Restore-MediaItem-v14.png)
3. Click **Restore**.

## Moving an Image or File

To move Media Items within the Media section:

1. Select the Media Item you want to move.
2.  Click **...** next to the Media Item and click **Move**.

    ![Move media items](images/move-images-v9.png)
3.  Choose the location where you want to move the Media Item to in the tree structure.

    ![Move Media.png](images/Move-media-location-v9.png)
4. Click **Move**.
5. Click **OK** to dismiss the confirmation message.

Commit message:

Added More information section to v13 and v16

16/umbraco-cms/tutorials/editors-manual/media-management/working-with-images-and-files.md, after:

# Working with Media Types

The following default Media Types are available:

* Article - Used for uploading and storing documents.
* Audio - used for uploading and storing digital audio files.
* File - used for uploading and storing different types of files in the Media section.
* Folder - a container for organizing media items in the media tree.
* Image - used for uploading and storing images.
* Vector Graphics (SVG) - used for uploading and storing Scalable Vector Graphics files which are text files containing source code to draw the desired image.
* Video - used for uploading and storing video files.

## Uploading a Media Item

In the Media Library, there are multiple ways to upload media items. The two most commonly used ones are:

1. Use the **Create** button to create a new media item and then upload directly from your machine.
2. The **...** next to the Media tree in the Media section.

    ![mediaUpload.jpg](images/upload-images-v14.png)

{% hint style="info" %}
We recommend using folders to organize your media items if you are going to add a lot of media to your website.
{% endhint %}

## Deleting a Media Item

If you wish to tidy up the Media section of your site, you can delete existing media items. Once you have deleted a media item, it is sent to the Recycle Bin. If you change your mind, you can restore the deleted media item from the Recycle Bin.

To delete a Media Item:

1. Select the media item you want to delete.
2. Click **...** and select **Trash**.

    ![mediaUpload.jpg](images/delete-media-item-v14.png)
3. Click **Trash**.

## Restoring a Media Item from the Recycle Bin

The **Recycle Bin** is a separate tree structure within the Media section. Clicking on the arrow next to the Recycle Bin will display its contents.

![Recycle Bin](images/mediaRecycle-single-imagev14.png)

To restore a Media Item:

1. Click **•••** next to the Media Item.
2. Select **Restore**.

    ![Restore Folder](images/Restore-MediaItem-v14.png)
3. Click **Restore**.

## Moving an Image or File

To move Media Items within the Media section:

1. Select the Media Item you want to move.
2. Click **...** next to the Media Item and click **Move**.

    ![Move media items](images/move-images-v9.png)
3. Choose the location where you want to move the Media Item to in the tree structure.

    ![Move Media.png](images/Move-media-location-v9.png)
4. Click **Move**.
5. Click **OK** to dismiss the confirmation message.

## More Information

* [Media Picker](../../../fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/media-picker-3.md)
* [Creating Media](../../../fundamentals/data/creating-media/README.md)
* [Rendering Media](../../../fundamentals/design/rendering-media.md)
