14/umbraco-forms/installation/install.md, before:

---
description: Installing Umbraco Forms
---

# Installing Umbraco Forms

Umbraco contains the **Forms** section, by default. You will see a similar interface, when you click on the **Forms** section in the **Umbraco Backoffice**.

![Form section in backoffice](images/Forms\_Section\_Backoffice.png)

## Video Tutorial

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Aojbp_1MPc" %}

To install the Umbraco Forms package (**Umbraco.Forms**), follow these steps:

1. Run the following command on a command prompt of your choice:

    ```cs
    dotnet add package Umbraco.Forms
    ```

2. Restart the web application using the following command:

    ```cs
        dotnet run
    ```
    
{% hint style="info" %}
**Note:** Ensure that the version of Umbraco Forms is compatible with the version of Umbraco you are using. For example, if you are using Umbraco 14, you should use Umbraco.Forms version 14.2.3 or a compatible version.
{% endhint %}

## Start Building Forms

Once the installation is successful, you will see a similar screen in the **Forms** section:

![Create form](images/start-with-forms-v14.png)

## Using Forms

For details on using Forms, see the [Editor Documentation](../editor/creating-a-form/README.md).

Commit message:

add the note as part of the forms install steps

14/umbraco-forms/installation/install.md, after:

---
description: Installing Umbraco Forms
---

# Installing Umbraco Forms

Umbraco contains the **Forms** section, by default. You will see a similar interface, when you click on the **Forms** section in the **Umbraco Backoffice**.

![Form section in backoffice](images/Forms\_Section\_Backoffice.png)

## Video Tutorial

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Aojbp_1MPc" %}

To install the Umbraco Forms package (**Umbraco.Forms**), follow these steps:

1.  Identify the Umbraco CMS version your project is running.
2.  Find a compatible version of Umbraco Forms that matches your Umbraco CMS version. A list of Umbraco Forms versions can be found on [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Forms#versions-body-tab).
3.  Run the following command on a command prompt of your choice, replacing `<version_number>` with the appropriate version identified above:

    ```cs
    dotnet add package Umbraco.Forms --version <version_number>
    ```
4.  Restart the web application using the following command:

    ```cs
     dotnet run
    ```

## Start Building Forms

Once the installation is successful, you will see a similar screen in the **Forms** section:

![Create form](images/start-with-forms-v14.png)

## Using Forms

For details on using Forms, see the [Editor Documentation](../editor/creating-a-form/README.md).
