15/umbraco-ui-builder/filtering/data-views.md, before:

---
description: Configuring data views in Umbraco UI Builder, the backoffice UI builder for Umbraco.
---

# Data Views

Data views allow you to define multiple, pre-filtered views of the same data source. This can be useful when entities exist in different states and you want a way to toggle between them.

![Data Views](../images/data_views.png)

## Defining data views

Data views are defined via the [collections](../collections/overview.md) configuration.

### **AddDataView(string name, Lambda whereClauseExpression) : CollectionConfigBuilder&lt;TEntityType&gt;**

Adds a data view with the given name and **where clause** filter expression. Expression must be a `boolean` expression.

````csharp
// Example
collectionConfig.AddDataView("Active", p => p.IsActive);
````

### **AddDataView(string group, string name, Lambda whereClauseExpression) : CollectionConfigBuilder&lt;TEntityType&gt;**

Adds a data view with the given group, name and **where clause** filter expression. Expression must be a `boolean` expression.

````csharp
// Example
collectionConfig.AddDataView("Status", "Active", p => p.IsActive);
````

Commit message:

Updated articles within the filtering section

15/umbraco-ui-builder/filtering/data-views.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to configure data views in Umbraco UI Builder.
---

# Data Views

Data views allow you to define multiple pre-filtered views of the same data source. This is useful when entities exist in different states and you need a way to toggle between them.

![Data Views](../images/data_views.png)

## Defining Data Views

Data views are defined via the [Collections](../collections/overview.md) settings.

### Using the `AddDataView()` Method

Creates a data view with the specified name and a where clause filter expression. The expression must return a `boolean` value.

#### Method Syntax

```cs
AddDataView(string name, Lambda whereClauseExpression) : CollectionConfigBuilder<TEntityType>
```

#### Example

````csharp
collectionConfig.AddDataView("Active", p => p.IsActive);
````

### Using the `AddDataView()` Method with Group

Creates a data view within a specified group, using a where clause filter expression. The expression must return a  `boolean` value.

#### Method Syntax

```cs
AddDataView(string group, string name, Lambda whereClauseExpression) : CollectionConfigBuilder<TEntityType>
```

#### Example

````csharp
collectionConfig.AddDataView("Status", "Active", p => p.IsActive);
````
