# Umbraco Models Builder Introduction

Models Builder is a tool that can generate a complete set of strongly-typed published content models for Umbraco 7.1.4+. Starting with Umbraco 7.4.0, Models Builder is bundled with the main Umbraco distribution. Models can be used anywhere content is retrieved from the content cache, i.e. in MVC views, controllers, etc. In other words, the content cache does not just return `IPublishedContent` objects anymore, but strongly typed models.

For each content (media, and member) type in the Umbraco setup, the generator creates a `*.generated.cs` file, corresponding to the content type, which looks like this:


      namespace MyModels
      {
        public partial class NewsItem : PublishedContentModel
        {
          public string Title { get { return this.GetPropertyValue<string>("title"); } }
          public IHtmlString BodyText { get { return this.GetPropertyValue<IHtmlString>("bodyText"); } }
        }
      }


Umbraco's content cache returns these objects _natively_: No need to map, convert or anything; the following code just runs:

      @inherits UmbracoViewPage<NewsItem>
      @using MyModels
      <h1>@Model.Title</h1>
      @Model.BodyText

**Note**: If your view inherits from `UmbracoViewPage<NewsItem>` then the model is the content item itself and the syntax is `@Model.Title`. If, on the other hand, your view inherits from `UmbracoTemplatePage<NewsItem>` then the model is a `RenderModel` instance and the syntax is `@Model.Content.Title`.

Models Builder respects the content types' inheritance tree, i.e. models inherit from each other if required, and mixins (content type compositions) are represented by interfaces.

Models Builder is a "code-after" solution. It only generates code from content types that already exist in Umbraco. It is not a "code-first" solution--code-first is a much more complex question.

And once you are using strongly typed models, there are some [cool things](CoolThingsWithModels.md) that you can do!

## Installing

Starting with version 7.4.0, the `Umbraco.ModelsBuilder` NuGet package is bundled with the main Umbraco distribution. 
See [https://github.com/zpqrtbnk/Zbu.ModelsBuilder/releases](https://github.com/zpqrtbnk/Zbu.ModelsBuilder/releases) for more details.

## Documentation

At the core of the strongly typed models "experience" is the `IPublishedContentModelFactory` interface, which has been made public with Umbraco version 7.1.4. This interface is part of Core. It is responsible for mapping the internal `IPublishedContent` implementations that would be returned by the content cache, to strongly typed models. Although there is a default factory shipped with Umbraco, it is possible to replace it by custom implementations. And even using the default factory, models do _not_ necessarily need to be generated by Models Builder. See the [IPublishedContentModelFactory](IPublishedContentModelFactory.md) page.

Models Builder is just one way to generate models for the default, built-in factory. Models can be generated either straight from the Umbraco backoffice, or via a console application, or via a Visual Studio extension.
