---
versionFrom: 7.0.0
---

# IPublishedContentModelFactory

:::warning
This is only works when you have the [full version of the Models Builder installed](https://github.com/zpqrtbnk/Zbu.ModelsBuilder).

Thinking about writing your own model classes or extending those generated by Models Builder? Make sure you read the *[Content Factory & Content Cache](#content-factory--content-cache)* section below, in order to fully understand what to do, and not to do.
:::

The `IPublishedContentModelFactory` has been made public with Umbraco 7.1.4. It defines one single method:

```csharp
public interface IPublishedContentModelFactory
{
  IPublishedContent CreateModel(IPublishedContent content);
}
```

Anytime the content cache has to create an object representing a content (media, or member), it will by default use an internal class implementing `IPublishedContent` (e.g. `XmlPublishedContent` for content coming from the XML cache). When a models factory is enabled, the content object will be passed to the factory, so it can convert/map it to an object of a different type. It is this object that is then returned by the cache.

The most basic factory would do nothing, e.g.:

```csharp
public IPublishedContent CreateModel(IPublishedContent content)
{
  return content;
}
```

The returned object must implement the `IPublishedContent` interface, which can be complex. In order to facilitate this, Core supplies some base classes (see below `PublishedContentModel`, `PublishedContentExtended` and `PublishedContentWrapped`).

The returned object must only depend on the original content object. Content models are _not_ view models and must be stateless, with regards to the current activity (current request, current culture...). In other words, the factory should not use information about the current request, current culture, whatever, to alter the returned object. Another way to say it: It should be possible for the factory to generate the model when Umbraco boots, and the model could be kept in memory for as long as the underlying content is not edited.

:::WARNING
**Factories should *not* cache models, i.e. a factory should create a *new* object each time it is asked for one.** Reason: At the moment we want models to inherit from `PublishedContentModel` so they implement `IPublishedContentExtended` and we need a new one each time we create a model. Currently looking into whether we can drop that constraint for future versions of Umbraco.
:::

## Enabling a factory

As of 7.1.4, Umbraco ships with no factory enabled. There _is_ a default factory in Umbraco, but it is not mandatory to use it. Below you can see how a factory can be implemented.

As with everything in Umbraco, a factory is enabled via a resolver. This is how the default factory is enabled:

```csharp
public class ConfigurePublishedContentModelFactory : ApplicationEventHandler
{
  protected override void ApplicationStarting(UmbracoApplicationBase umbracoApplication, ApplicationContext applicationContext)
  {
    var types = PluginManager.Current.ResolveTypes<PublishedContentModel>();
    var factory = new PublishedContentModelFactory(types);
    PublishedContentModelFactoryResolver.Current.SetFactory(factory);
  }
}
```

When you install Models Builder, the default factory is automatically enabled. If you do not want to use Models Builder and yet you want to use the default factory (with your own model classes), you will need to explicitly enable it.

### Using the default factory

The default factory must be initialized with a list of types to be used as strongly typed models. These types need to obey the following rules:

* Each type must inherit from `PublishedContentModel`
* The factory will try to map the type class name to a content type alias, _unless_ the type is marked with the `[PublishedContentModel("alias")]` attribute

### Implementing IPublishedContent

Implementing the `IPublishedContent` interface from scratch can be complex. Umbraco ships with various classes that can help:

* `PublishedContentWrapped`: An abstract class that wraps an existing `IPublishedContent` without adding any extra functionality. Use the `Unwrap()` method to access the inner content. This is the base class for all classes that need to extend existing content.
* `PublishedContentExtended`: Inherits from `PublishedContentWrapped` and provides functionality to "extend" a content, i.e.: 1) add some properties to it and 2) support content sets.
* `PublishedContentModel`: Inherits from `PublishedContentExtended` without adding any functionality. Is used to distinguish models from other extended content.

**Note**: Need to understand and document why `PublishedContentModel` inherits from `PublishedContentExtended` and not directly from `PublishedContentWrapped`?

Should you want to implement your own models classes, the easiest solution is to inherit from one of those three classes.

## Content Factory & Content Cache

As of Umbraco 7.1.4, anytime a content is retrieved from the cache, a new `IPublishedContent` object is created, passed through the factory, and returned. This is how the current content cache works. Which means that that content is *local* to the *current request*.

This is not best in terms of efficiently. It implies that a lot of objects are created, each time parsing the XML content in the cache. It means that each request runs the property value converters, etc. In fact, depending on how the cache is queried, *several copies* of the same object could be created.

Ultimately, the idea is to cache the content objects themselves. Which would mean that the content returned by the cache is *global* to the entire application, and that the *same* content model *object* is returned to all requests for as long as that content does not change. Because that object is shared by requests, property values are converted once, which is more efficient.

Which prompts **rule number 1**: Content models must be *stateless* with regards to the current request. If you add a property to a model, and the value of that property depends on the current request, then you must *not* store that value as a field. It must be re-calculated each time, or stored in a cache at the request's level.

A cache that would cache the content objects, would refresh (replace) the object corresponding to a content item, when that content item is modified (published). So, a new object is created, property values will be converted again, etc.

Things become more complicated when a content references another content. Say, content A contains a content picker that has been used to pick content B, and that picker has a value converter that directly returns a content object. If content B is unpublished then... content A does *not* change yet the value returned by the property *must* change.

The content cache would take care of that situation for converted properties automatically (using hints given by the converter via the `PropertyValueCacheAttribute` attribute). But anything else, any custom reference stored, e.g. in a field, would *not* be refreshed and therefore would be out-of-sync.

Which prompts **rule number 2**: Content models must *not* keep references to other contents in local variables. If you want to implement properties or methods that return references to other contents, you can:

* Re-run the query each time
* Cache the IDs in a field and re-get the content objects each time
* Implement your own caching mechanism

The idea is that such a cache would provide an infrastructure for you to cache values either at the request's level, or "for as long as no other content is changed". The same that would be used internally for the cache to manage the converted values.

This is not an issue *today* but it will become an issue if/when a new cache comes. Better understand what's going on before creating models that would *not* work with a new cache.
