---
meta.Title: Installing Umbraco Deploy on new Umbraco website
meta.Description: Steps to how Umbraco Deploy can be set up on a new Umbraco website
---

# New site

In this article, we will cover the steps in order for you to install Umbraco deploy on a brand new website.

We will cover how to install Umbraco deploy and set up Umbraco deploy on your website. We will also go through an example on how it can be set up as a CI/CD build server using Github actions to run the deployment on a website set up with Azure Web Apps.

## Prerequisites

* Visual studio 2017 v15.9.6 or later
* Umbraco Deploy license
* SQL Server Database

## How to install Umbraco Deploy

In this guide we will show how you can install Umbraco Deploy and set up a build server using Github actions to deploy your content.

{% hint style="info" %}
In these examples we are hosting the site on Azure Web Apps, using Github actions or Azure DevOps to set up the CI/CD build server.

However you are free to choose the hosting provider and CI/CD pipeline that you prefer, as long as it supports executing Powershell scripts it will work with Umbraco Deploy.
{% endhint %}

## Installation steps

1. [Set up Git repository and new Umbraco project](new-site.md#set-up-git-repository-and-umbraco-project)
2. [Install Umbraco Deploy via NuGet](new-site.md#installing-and-setting-up-umbraco-deploy)
3. [Configure CI/CD pipeline](new-site.md#set-up-cicd-pipeline)

### Set up Git repository and Umbraco project

The first step to get Umbraco Deploy up and running is to set up a Github repository. This will be where source code is stored, and, if following the GitHub actions example, act as our environment where we will set up a CI/CD pipeline.

1. Set up a Github repository with a .gitignore file using the Visual Studio template.
2. Clone down the repository to your local machine.
3. Create a new Umbraco project.
4. Run the project.
5. Choose to use a custom SQL connectionstring pointing to your local database.
6. Commit the files to so they are ready to be pushed up once we have set up the build server.

After the Umbraco files have been committed add the following lines to the .gitignore so that they will not be picked up by Git when we are deploying.

```
**/media/*

# Umbraco deploy specific
**/umbraco/Deploy/deploy*
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The deploy specific update here will ensure that temporary files generated by Deploy during it's operations will not be included in source control.
{% endhint %}

Make sure that the updates to the .gitignore file are also committed.

### Installing and setting up Umbraco Deploy

When Umbraco has been installed in a repository, we can go ahead to [install and configure Umbraco Deploy in the project](install-configure.md).

### Set up CI/CD Pipeline

At this stage your new website is prepared for use with Umbraco Deploy. You should now move on to the setup of your[ CI/CD build and deployment pipeline](cicd-pipeline/).

Once the build server has been set up you can start creating content and sync it between your environments. Make sure to follow the proper [deployment workflow](../deployment-workflow/).

This will only deploy the schema data. To transfer content and media you will need to do it from the backoffice of your project using the [queue for transfer feature](../deployment-workflow/content-transfer.md).
